documentation/source/api/encodings/big5_hkscs.rst, before:

.. =============================================================================
..
.. ztd.text
.. Copyright © 2022-2023 JeanHeyd "ThePhD" Meneide and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC
.. Contact: opensource@soasis.org
..
.. Commercial License Usage
.. Licensees holding valid commercial ztd.text licenses may use this file in
.. accordance with the commercial license agreement provided with the
.. Software or, alternatively, in accordance with the terms contained in
.. a written agreement between you and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC.
.. For licensing terms and conditions see your agreement. For
.. further information contact opensource@soasis.org.
..
.. Apache License Version 2 Usage
.. Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of Apache License
.. Version 2.0 (the "License") for non-commercial use; you may not use this
.. file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.. License at
..
.. https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
..
.. =============================================================================>

Big5 Hong Kong Supplementary Character Set (HKSCS)
==================================================



.. doxygenvariable:: ztd::text::big5_hkscs



Base Templates
--------------

.. doxygenclass:: ztd::text::basic_big5_hkscs
	:members:

Commit message:

📝🎨 Drastically improve and fix up documentation for exsiting encodings.

documentation/source/api/encodings/big5_hkscs.rst, after:

.. =============================================================================
..
.. ztd.text
.. Copyright © 2022-2023 JeanHeyd "ThePhD" Meneide and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC
.. Contact: opensource@soasis.org
..
.. Commercial License Usage
.. Licensees holding valid commercial ztd.text licenses may use this file in
.. accordance with the commercial license agreement provided with the
.. Software or, alternatively, in accordance with the terms contained in
.. a written agreement between you and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC.
.. For licensing terms and conditions see your agreement. For
.. further information contact opensource@soasis.org.
..
.. Apache License Version 2 Usage
.. Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of Apache License
.. Version 2.0 (the "License") for non-commercial use; you may not use this
.. file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.. License at
..
.. https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
..
.. =============================================================================>

Big5 Hong Kong Supplementary Character Set (HKSCS)
==================================================

The Big5 encoding, with the Hong Kong Supplementary Character Set (HKSCS) included with it. This is the most prevalent encoding besides GBK in use for Chinese languages (though there exist many subsets captured by other variants and encodings that may use the same name).



Alias
-----

.. doxygenvariable:: ztd::text::big5_hkscs



Base Templates
--------------

.. doxygenclass:: ztd::text::basic_big5_hkscs
	:members:
