documentation/source/api/encodings/utf8.rst, before:

.. =============================================================================
..
.. ztd.text
.. Copyright © 2021 JeanHeyd "ThePhD" Meneide and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC
.. Contact: opensource@soasis.org
..
.. Commercial License Usage
.. Licensees holding valid commercial ztd.text licenses may use this file in
.. accordance with the commercial license agreement provided with the
.. Software or, alternatively, in accordance with the terms contained in
.. a written agreement between you and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC.
.. For licensing terms and conditions see your agreement. For
.. further information contact opensource@soasis.org.
..
.. Apache License Version 2 Usage
.. Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of Apache License
.. Version 2.0 (the "License") for non-commercial use; you may not use this
.. file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.. License at
..
.. 		https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
..
.. =============================================================================>

UTF-8
=====




Base Template
-------------

.. doxygenclass:: ztd::text::basic_utf8
	:members:



Aliases
-------

.. doxygentypedef:: ztd::text::utf8

Commit message:

✨ Objects instead of types for ease-of-use
— ✍ Document change in name from count_xable to count_as_xd (closes #16)
— 🔨 Makes sure we are using objects for everything (mostly library-provided types are default-constructible)
— 🔨 Some of our tests had the wrong data: fix them up on the way
— ✨ Better UTF-8 startup hooks
— ✨ Improved and made-available assert type
— 🛠 Rely on IDK for more specific functionality

documentation/source/api/encodings/utf8.rst, after:

.. =============================================================================
..
.. ztd.text
.. Copyright © 2021 JeanHeyd "ThePhD" Meneide and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC
.. Contact: opensource@soasis.org
..
.. Commercial License Usage
.. Licensees holding valid commercial ztd.text licenses may use this file in
.. accordance with the commercial license agreement provided with the
.. Software or, alternatively, in accordance with the terms contained in
.. a written agreement between you and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC.
.. For licensing terms and conditions see your agreement. For
.. further information contact opensource@soasis.org.
..
.. Apache License Version 2 Usage
.. Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of Apache License
.. Version 2.0 (the "License") for non-commercial use; you may not use this
.. file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.. License at
..
.. 		https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
..
.. =============================================================================>

UTF-8
=====

Unicode Transformation Format 8 (UTF-8) is an encoding for text that traffics code units 8-bits at a time. It is ubiquitous amongst web and other shared protocols and the preferred storage format for non-legacy environments and operations. It is preferred that all text is placed in UTF-8 format when working internally in your application, unless you have some special reason (e.g., interoperation with JavaScript or Qt).

.. doxygenvariable:: ztd::text::utf8

.. doxygentypedef:: ztd::text::utf8_t



Base Template
-------------

.. doxygenclass:: ztd::text::basic_utf8
	:members:
